- [Instructor] In order to be successful with JPA,
you should be very familiar with the entityManager
and its operations.
Let's take a closer look at those operations in this lesson.
So you'll notice that we've expanded our EJB interface
to include some additional methods.
So now we're able to find a CatalogItem by its ID,
we're also able to delete a CatalogItem,
and then we're able to search
for CatalogItems by their name.
So when we expanded that interface,
we also had to include some stub methods
within our EJB implementation.
And we're going to spend some time
completing the implementations for those methods.
So the first thing we want to do is find an item by its ID.
And it's really easy using the entityManager to do that.
So it has a find method.
And all we need to do is provide the type of the entity,
so in this case we're going to supply the CatalogItem class
and then we pass in the ID, and that's all there is to it.
Now deleting an item is a little bit more complicated.
On the entityManager we're going to find a remove method
and then what we do is we check to see
if the entityManager contains the particular entity.
So we're checking to see if it's within
that persistence context.
If it is we just go ahead and pass the entity
to the remove method.
If it is not within the persistence context
then we use the entityManager to perform a merge.
And this will add the entity to the persistence context.
And then you'll notice the return type of the merge method
is our type of the entity.
So the entity will be passed into the remove method.
And now we're going to move on to construct a query
using the entityManager.
That's actually going to use the LIKE operator
and some wild carding within JPQL.
So to do that we invoke the createQuery method
and then we provide our JPQL,
so remember it is based upon the object.
So we're going to construct a query
that uses the CatalogItem.
And then I'm just going to shift down to a new line here,
and we'll continue our query.
And then we provide a predicate,
so we can say where the CatalogItem's name is like,
and then we use a colon followed by a parameter name.
So we can parameterize these JPQL queries,
which makes them safer, preventing SQL injection.
And then for the second argument
we just provide the CatalogItem class
that helps us type our query.
And then we're able to set the parameters.
So we just provide the parameter name,
which in this case is name.
And then what we're going to do
is surround the value provided with wild cards
and that's going to allow the LIKE operation
to be wild carded so that we don't have to
kind of have a starts with or an ends with.
And then we just return the results list.
So there's the implementations for our new EJB methods.
And we use the entityManager to satisfy
all of these crud operations.
Let's talk a little bit more about what's going on then
within the application, there's a few things
that have been pre-positioned.
So on our list page, you'll now see a form
that allows us to search our data table.
So when we click the command button
it's going to invoke the search by name method
on our CatalogItem form Bean.
And you'll see that's setup to use Ajax within JSF,
so it won't be a full trip to the browser,
it's just going to be an Ajax request
that will refresh our data table.
It gets the search input, or the search text,
from this input text box.
And if we take a look at the Backing Bean
we can see all of this.
So here's our search text and then we're calling
that search by name method on our EJB.
And we got a little bit more work to do
because we're going to modify our CatalogItemDeleteBean
in order to leverage some additional methods
that we've placed on that EJB.
So the first thing we're going to do
is make this a ConversationScoped Bean.
You'll remember that this was one of the scopes
particular to JSF so it'll be nice to take a look at that.
And when we do that we need to implement
the Serializable interface.
So we can go ahead and have our Bean
implement that interface.
And then we're going to inject our EJB.
So we'll use the CatalogLocal interface
and then specify that it is a catalogBean
and that'll be the name of our EJB.
And then the other thing we'll need to do,
in order to work with the ConversationScope
we need to inject a conversation object.
So we can import that and now we have
this new conversation object.
And that's going to allow us to explicitly
manage the scope of this Bean within our code.
So here you see we had the logic
that was fetching the particular CatalogItem
from our list, we're no longer going to use that.
Instead we're going to use our conversation.
And we'll begin the conversation.
And then we're going to assign the item field
to the result of our CatalogBean's findItem method.
And we can just pass in the itemID here.
And we're good to go with the fetchItem method.
We're going to move on at this point then.
And here we're going to provide the implementation
in order to remove a particular item from our database.
So all we need to do here is use the EJB
and its delete method, and then we simply pass in the item
that has been bound to our Backing Bean.
And then we want to go ahead and end our conversation,
and that will end the ConversationScope lifecycle
here for this Bean.
Okay, so with that in place let's go ahead
and we can start our application.
So we just right click, go to run as and then run on server.
We'll see our console spin up.
And I'll start opening up a browser.
And we'll navigate to the application.
And then let's add a couple things, we'll add gloves.
And then we'll head back to the form
and then we're going to add mittens.
We can see they're stored within our database.
And then I'm going to do a search
for a item that has a name with two T's in it.
You see we get the mittens.
Now if we click on the remove item link,
the item is populated from the database
and then we can go ahead confirm the delete of that item
and it's gone.
So this was a look at some more of the operations
on the entityManager.
Very important to be familiar with these
if you're going to be using JPA within your applications.